ref:Hai Lin, Sherali Zeadally, et al. A survey on computation offloading modeling for edge computing. 
      Journal of Network and Computer Applications 169(2020), 102781.

file name: 1-s2.0-S1084804520302551-main

主题：边缘计算中的计算分流问题
结构：
1、对前人提出的边缘计算结构进行分类
2、对 channel model, computation and communication model, and energy harvesting model等主流的计算分流模型，
并通过 (non-)convex optimization, Markov decision process, game theory, Lyapunov optimization,
or machine learning对每种模型进行分析

核心内容：
1、Computation offloading, which offloads computation tasks to EC,
  consists of a transmission procedure, a remote execution procedure, and
  a result send-back procedure

2、offloading scheme：
    a.Task partition: If a task is partitionable, we need to optimally
      partition the task before offloading (Fig. 1b). Otherwise, the whole
      task should be offloaded to an EC server .
    b.Offloading decision (task placement): to decide which EC server(s)
      will execute the whole task or the partitioned task. It is worth noting
      that the task can also be executed locally.
    c.Resource allocation: to determine the amount of resources needed.
      These resources include computing resources, communication resources, and energy which should be allocated for the tasks or
      components. 
      导出问题的核心在于以上三个步骤的最优化
      
3、主流Edge computing architectures and frameworks ：
    a.European Telecommunications Standards Institute
      (ETSI) MEC, 
    b.OpenFog
    c.mobile Edge computing for the Internet of Things
      (EdgeIoT)
    d.FLexible Edge Computing (FLEC)
    分类：two-tier(2级构架)/three-tier(3级构架)
    The two-tier architecture (ED-EC) enables EC alone to handle computation
    tasks while in the three-tier architecture (ED-EC-Cloud) EC works as a
    complement to cloud computing. 

4、二级构架：ED-EC
  最重要的二级构架：ETSI MEC， defines, from top to bottom, a mobile edge system level, a mobile edge host level and a network level. 
                              The mobile edge host level is the fundamental part of the MEC framework which hosts and manages all edge applications. 
                              The mobile edge system level provides an abstraction of the underlying MEC system for end users and 
                              third parties whereas the underlying networks level offers connectivity to a variety of accesses including 3GPP mobile networks, 
                              local access network and external network such as the Internet
  其他二级构架举例：Mobile Ad hoc Cloud (MAC)，proposes an ad-hoc EC architecture which consists of five components: an application manager, a resource manager, 
                  a context manager, a communication manager, and a task offloading manager. Mobile EDs act as both users and EC servers. When a mobile ED wishes 
                  to execute a computation-intensive task while its CPU resources are being heavily used, it offloads the task to another mobile ED (or others). 
5、三级构架：ED-EC-Cloud
比如：The OpenFog consortium defines a hierarchical architecture 

6、基于一些特殊场景/应用的构架 In the literature, there are also some edge computing architectures/ frameworks designed for specific applications.

7、构架的总结：A two-tier architecture handles all tasks at the edge, so it works well for time-sensitive applications. In contrast, 
              the design of the two-tier architecture focuses more on edge server management, performance optimization 
              (e.g. load balancing, execution latency), and application management. A three-tier architecture is suitable 
              for applications which have both time-sensitive tasks and computation-intensive tasks. 
              
8、计算分流的分类：based on offloading goals、classify the computation offloading into static offloading and dynamic offloading
classify computation offloading from two other perspectives (Fig. 5): one is from offloading flow. The second one is based on offloading scenario

Computation offloading related techniques：
9、Offloading mode：: depending on whether a task is partitionable
  Two computation offloading modes have been defined in EC: binary（无法拆分） and partial（可拆分） offloading
    partial  offloading：
        parallel：the offloading strategy only needs to decide where to place the components
        sequential：should define the components’ placement as well as their scheduling.

10、Channel model: depending on multiple access mode
  Interference model：CDMA
  interference-free model：OFDMA

11、Computing model: depending on the definition of the computation task and the queue model
    Energy consumption optimization and latency minimization are two important objectives of computation offloading
     mainly caused by task execution and transmission
     
12、Energy harvesting（能量收集） model: depending on the knowledge about energy arrivals
  classified as deterministic（确定的） or stochastic（随机的）
  
13、计算分流模型中的重要参数/决策：
      Offloading decision：分流到本地/云端/边缘?
      Server selection
      Wireless resource allocation:使用哪部分无线资源进行数据传输
      Transmission power setting:能量限制
      Computation resource allocation:计算资源的分配
      
14、计算分流的目标：最低延迟、最小能耗、任务分发时间最短、计算资源使用最大化、经济开销最小
